docs/content/documentation/content/taxonomies.md, before:

+++
title = "Taxonomies"
weight = 90
+++

Zola has built-in support for taxonomies.

## Configuration

A taxonomy has five variables:

- `name`: a required string that will be used in the URLs, usually the plural version (i.e., tags, categories, etc.)
- `paginate_by`: if this is set to a number, each term page will be paginated by this much.
- `paginate_path`: if set, this path will be used by the paginated page and the page number will be appended after it.
For example the default would be page/1.
- `feed`: if set to `true`, a feed (atom by default) will be generated for each term.
- `lang`: only set this if you are making a multilingual site and want to indicate which language this taxonomy is for

**Example 1:** (one language)

```toml
taxonomies = [ name = "categories", rss = true ]
```

**Example 2:** (multilingual site)

```toml
taxonomies = [
    {name = "tags", lang = "fr"},
    {name = "tags", lang = "eo"},
    {name = "tags", lang = "en"},
]
```

## Using taxonomies

Once the configuration is done, you can then set taxonomies in your content and Zola will pick them up:

**Example:**

```toml
+++
title = "Writing a static-site generator in Rust"
date = 2019-08-15
[taxonomies]
tags = ["rust", "web"]
categories = ["programming"]
+++
```

## Output paths

In a similar manner to how section and pages calculate their output path:
- the taxonomy name is never slugified
- the taxonomy term (eg. as specific tag) is slugified when `slugify.taxonomies` is enabled (`"on"`, the default) in the configuration

The taxonomy pages are then available at the following paths:

```plain
$BASE_URL/$NAME/ (taxonomy)
$BASE_URL/$NAME/$SLUG (taxonomy entry)
```

Commit message:

Add warning to not put taxonomies key in [extra] (#1095)

docs/content/documentation/content/taxonomies.md, after:

+++
title = "Taxonomies"
weight = 90
+++

Zola has built-in support for taxonomies.

## Configuration

A taxonomy has five variables:

- `name`: a required string that will be used in the URLs, usually the plural version (i.e., tags, categories, etc.)
- `paginate_by`: if this is set to a number, each term page will be paginated by this much.
- `paginate_path`: if set, this path will be used by the paginated page and the page number will be appended after it.
For example the default would be page/1.
- `feed`: if set to `true`, a feed (atom by default) will be generated for each term.
- `lang`: only set this if you are making a multilingual site and want to indicate which language this taxonomy is for

Insert into the configuration file (config.toml):

⚠️ Place the taxonomies key in the main section and not in the `[extra]` section

**Example 1:** (one language)

```toml
taxonomies = [ name = "categories", rss = true ]
```

**Example 2:** (multilingual site)

```toml
taxonomies = [
    {name = "tags", lang = "fr"},
    {name = "tags", lang = "eo"},
    {name = "tags", lang = "en"},
]
```

## Using taxonomies

Once the configuration is done, you can then set taxonomies in your content and Zola will pick them up:

**Example:**

```toml
+++
title = "Writing a static-site generator in Rust"
date = 2019-08-15
[taxonomies]
tags = ["rust", "web"]
categories = ["programming"]
+++
```

## Output paths

In a similar manner to how section and pages calculate their output path:
- the taxonomy name is never slugified
- the taxonomy term (eg. as specific tag) is slugified when `slugify.taxonomies` is enabled (`"on"`, the default) in the configuration

The taxonomy pages are then available at the following paths:

```plain
$BASE_URL/$NAME/ (taxonomy)
$BASE_URL/$NAME/$SLUG (taxonomy entry)
```
